SURFACE CONCEPT SEED (key: 3d28cd9f; mode: operate; source: api; approved pool: c3b204a1eed6; 306/564 human-approved; rerun with --scope surface --mode operate --from 3d28cd9f --candidate-count 5 to reproduce this roll against this catalog revision)
DEALT INDICES: 3, 1, 2 (index 3 leads)
  After ordering the task's grounded structural candidates by resonance,
  deal candidates 3, 1, 2 of your own grounded list to the
  table; index 3 leads, and the deal never points at a challenger.
  The deal is the roll, not a suggestion: the dice decide which structures
  reach the user, so the ranking rut stays broken while the user still gets a
  real choice, and the full ranked list stays yours. In an attended run,
  present the three dealt structures as full cards of equal salience, the
  lead carrying kicker THE ROLL, with steer and re-roll, and let the user
  lock one in; the world is already settled, so this choice is composition.
  Visualize every dealt card: with image generation available and a
  comp-led default (.impeccable/config.json buildPath; the page toggle
  handles the exception), declare a comp per card and generate after
  serving, lead first; otherwise author each card's wireframe field (see
  serve-question --schema) and the page draws the schematic. Carry the
  recorded default in the payload as buildPath with toggle: true. Locking a card
  approves its comp: a surface round that put three visualized structures on
  the table replaces the three-option comp round in visualize.md. Re-roll
  yourself only when every dealt structure fails audience identification or
  product clarity on named factual grounds.
  The assignment exists to refuse the model's ranking rut, never to outrank
  the user or the brief. Never expose assignment metadata in user-facing labels.
CHALLENGERS:
  1. a rail concourse split-flap board at rush hour, where cascading letter flaps, platform columns, and departure rhythm hold a thousand travelers in one gaze
     SOURCE ID: signals-instruments-split-flap-concourse
     CREATIVE SPARK: A ripple of clacks runs the board, Milan becomes Marseille, and every head in the concourse lifts at the same half-second.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: matte black flap faces with white paint letters, brushed steel board frame as ground, amber row lamps for delay; cancelled rows drop to dim red type
       - Type/composition: one condensed white sans on every flap, characters in fixed cells, destinations in caps; the board's ruled rows and columns are the entire composition
       - Topology/navigation: rows are live entities ranked by time; columns never move, only their flaps.
       - Controls/state: changes cascade character by character; delayed and cancelled states restyle the row without breaking the grid.
       - Responsive/motion: the board narrows column priority on phones; the cascade collapses to a single update under
     WEB LEVERAGE: WebSocket-fed rows animate per-character flips while remaining a semantic, sortable table underneath.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/signals-instruments-split-flap-concourse.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/signals-instruments-split-flap-concourse-hero.webp
  2. a convention circle catalog printed on newsprint, thousands of hand-drawn thumbnail squares packed into a numbered hall grid, each square carrying a circle name, a table code and a drawing done at postage-stamp size
     SOURCE ID: pop-culture-shelf-doujin-event-catalog
     CREATIVE SPARK: eight hundred drawings on one page, each one the size of a stamp, each with a table code, and somebody has gone through and circled forty of them in biro with a route planned between them.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: single-ink black on cheap newsprint that grays under the thumb, with one spot color used only on the hall map dividers
       - Type/composition: postage-stamp thumbnails packed edge to edge in a numbered grid, circle names set tiny beneath, and a folded hall map keyed to the codes
       - Topology/navigation: the hall map and the grid are the same space, so navigation moves between a table code and its physical position
       - Controls/state: controls are thumbnail cells, the active one is circled in pen, and visited ones are struck through by hand
       - Responsive/motion: the grid repacks in whole cells, and motion is a jump from a catalog cell to its position on the hall map
     WEB LEVERAGE: a whole-cell responsive thumbnail grid, marked state persisted local, and deep-linking between catalog cell and hall map
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/pop-culture-shelf-doujin-event-catalog.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/pop-culture-shelf-doujin-event-catalog-hero.webp
  3. a pocket airline timetable read as a raked rack of tinted glass slides lying on a lit goldenrod bed, where every column, code strip, heading and paragraph is set at one single type size so rank has to be carried by weight, case, reversal and rule instead
     SOURCE ID: rw-timetable-slide-rack
     CREATIVE SPARK: A 1971 pocket timetable lying open flat on a light table, a scratched acetate ruler laid across the departure columns at a slight lean, the rules printed on the reverse of the sheet glowing up through the goldenrod stock.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: Lit goldenrod bed under slate tinted glass, in carbon, bible ivory, vermilion and bottle green, accent set per block id, prose panes opaque ivory
       - Type/composition: One size only: Bell Gothic prose at 58 to 66, Trade Gothic Condensed No. 18 labels; rank is weight and case, containers rake 11 degrees, baselines flat
       - Topology/navigation: One continuous rack of slides along the rake, each restating its own heading; travel is lateral, a tick rail shows position and extent at every width
       - Controls/state: State is a mark in a fixed cell, filled holds, hollow does not, vermilion strikes, green confirms; one element per screen goes to an opaque reversed plate
       - Responsive/motion: One light travels the bed along the rake, never crossing a prose pane; slides move on that axis only, reduced motion parks it, width never scales type
     WEB LEVERAGE: CSS parallelogram containers driven by one --rake property with counter sheared inner blocks, the single type size as a token no component may override, code strips computed at build time, and the light as one composited gradient layer.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/rw-timetable-slide-rack.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/rw-timetable-slide-rack-hero.webp
  4. a design annual's plate section on uncoated near-white stock, where registration crosshairs mark every plate corner, a letterpressed circular attribution stamp sits half off the image, hairline rules divide the credits row, and one grotesque carries display and caption alike
     SOURCE ID: design-annual-s-plate-section
     CREATIVE SPARK: The sheet is almost white but never neutral: it drifts warm at one corner and green at another, so the ink reads as printed rather than rendered. Everything else is registration furniture — crosses, dots, hairlines — and a single periwinkle stamp to prove a human signed it.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: ground #F5F4F6, drifting to #FAF6F5 and #EEF3EF at edges; ink #16181A never pure black; single accent seal #DCDDF3; hairlines #C9C7C4 1px; photography untinted.
       - Type/composition: one grotesque throughout — 400 weight, 92px display at -0.02em, 17px body; labels 11px mono uppercase at 0.14em; 12-col grid, 40px gutters, no italics.
       - Topology/navigation: one continuous sheet; 72px sticky bar of mono tokens; crosshair plus marks register plate corners; 8px dot matrix fills voids; hairlines split the 4-up row.
       - Controls/state: primary is a filled #16181A rect, 0 radius, mono caps 0.12em; secondary a 1px outline rect; nav arrows 44px circles; background inverts 0.1s ease.
       - Responsive/motion: stamp's text ring turns 25s linear infinite and lifts 4px on hover 0.6s cubic-bezier(.19,1,.22,1); tiles step one column at that curve; no parallax.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Sticky mono token bar, SVG textPath stamp on infinite linear rotation, pointer-local dot-matrix fades, and a whole grid built from 1px hairlines and CSS crosshairs.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/design-annual-s-plate-section.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/design-annual-s-plate-section-hero.webp
  5. a zoo and gardens guide map, where every area is a swelling lobe of flat colour and the coastline between lobes does all the dividing, and where a lobe can open in its middle so the page ground shows through it as water
     SOURCE ID: aww2-zoo-gardens-guide-map
     CREATIVE SPARK: A summer opening-morning guide map creased into eight panels: an apple-green headland swelling across the fold, a coral flamingo standing right on its edge with one foot out over the cream, and a yellow capsule pinned to the coastline reading GATE.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: Flat unmodulated colour, no grain: green #8ED462 land on cream #F5F1E4 water, ink #2C2E2A. Photographs keep their own colour, cropped to a lobe, never tinted.
       - Type/composition: One grotesk at one weight; display at 0.95 leading, -0.06em. Prose is ink on cream, white, green or yellow; coral and blue carry labels only.
       - Topology/navigation: One lobe dominates each screen, swelling until its coast leaves the frame on two sides; a lobe may open in its middle and let the ground through as water.
       - Controls/state: Controls are capsules in yellow #F5E211, coral #FF705D, blue #2BA0FF, lilac #EBC1FF; a round chip rides its trailing edge and crosses to the leading edge when live.
       - Responsive/motion: Everything that moves takes 0.4s and overshoots before settling. Scroll redraws the coastline continuously; at narrow widths the coast runs down the frame.
     WEB LEVERAGE: Every area is one SVG path; scroll advances a single timeline that morphs the coastline, and the same path clips the illustration and the type, so one geometry drives layout, art and state together.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/aww2-zoo-gardens-guide-map.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/aww2-zoo-gardens-guide-map-hero.webp
  6. a jet-age airline ticket wallet, where carbon-copy coupons, route maps, and baggage tags choreograph one journey through crisp official color
     SOURCE ID: vernacular-ephemera-jet-age-ticket-wallet
     CREATIVE SPARK: Red carbon numerals, a fold-out route arc, a stapled baggage stub: the whole Atlantic crossing fits in a paper wallet.
     SYSTEM GRAMMAR:
       - Palette/material: carrier navy and red over crisp white coupon stock, carbon purple for every filled figure, the red VOID stamp owning the cancelled state
       - Type/composition: airline grotesk caps on tabbed coupon heads, fare and flight boxes ruled in hairlines, carbon numerals striking fixed fields, one leg per sheet
       - Topology/navigation: the flow is a coupon book; each leg tears off in sequence and the wallet always shows what remains.
       - Controls/state: validated, used, and void states stamp themselves onto the coupon; nothing disappears, it cancels.
       - Responsive/motion: coupons stack into a single stub column on phones; tear-off animates once
     WEB LEVERAGE: Printable, deep-linkable coupon states with URL-addressable legs and offline-capable stubs.
     QUALITY BAR: board https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/vernacular-ephemera-jet-age-ticket-wallet.webp · hero https://impeccable.style/worlds/cards/vernacular-ephemera-jet-age-ticket-wallet-hero.webp
A challenger wins only when its fused result beats the grounded list on
  audience identification and product clarity. It may change task topology or
  interaction, but never the committed visual identity.
When you can view images, open the QUALITY BAR board and hero for any
challenger you weigh seriously and for the world you build. They exist as a
craft bar, the finish level and commitment the build is expected to reach,
never as a mockup to copy; your surface serves this product, not that render.
PRODUCT.md and DESIGN.md constrain every surface candidate's identity
vocabulary; they do not cancel task-level composition. The seed never
authorizes a new palette, type system, material world, or unfamiliar control
behavior.
The CREATIVE SPARK is a complete visual system, not a theme or decorative
reference. Translate every supplied system rule into the product: palette and
material, type and composition, topology, controls and states, and adaptation.
Keep the source's visible character, scale, rhythm, and interaction instead of
reducing vivid grammar to generic nouns. When the source is already a credible
interface language, commit to it across navigation, content, controls, and
states. Otherwise keep a literal carrier only when it becomes functional.
Ambitious motion, spatial media, or interaction is welcome when it strengthens
the product without weakening semantics, performance, or fallback behavior.
TELEMETRY: after the user's choice resolves, rerun this script once with
  --kind <assigned|pick|challenger|canon> --from 3d28cd9f --scope surface --mode operate,
  adding --chosen <challenger-id> when a dealt challenger won and keeping
  --register <safer|bolder> when the resolved round came from a steered hand.
  One ping per resolved attended round. The ping is anonymous, the card kind
  plus the catalog id when one won; your grounded candidates' names never
  leave the machine, and the ping is skipped automatically when DO_NOT_TRACK
  or IMPECCABLE_NO_TELEMETRY is set.
A user- or brief-pinned decision beats the roll, always.
DEALT INDICES (restated for truncated readers): 3, 1, 2; index
3 leads. Present all three dealt structures; seed key 3d28cd9f.
